[Server] -mt implies MSBuild Server (#13758)
dotnet/msbuild: documentation/specs/multithreading/multithreaded-msbuild.md

## MSBuild Server integration

To avoid regressing CLI incremental build performance, it is essential to fully support the MSBuild server feature in multithreaded mode. Out-of-process nodes offer significant benefits by preserving caches across build command executions when node reuse is enabled. However, caches in the entry process are lost at the end of each build unless the MSBuild server feature is used. In multiprocess execution, that is a fraction of the caches and processes, but with multithreading, it is the entire process. As a result, opting into multithreading on the command line should automatically enable MSBuild server.

### `-mt` implies MSBuild Server

> When this is a `-mt` (`-multithreaded`) build and `MSBUILDUSESERVER` is unset, MSBuild Server is engaged automatically. Setting `MSBUILDUSESERVER` to any explicit value opts out of the implicit path: `1` keeps the server on, and any other value (e.g. `0`, `false`) keeps it off — only `1` engages the server, matching the pre-existing rule. `-mt` is itself experimental and opt-in, so the implicit server engagement is not separately gated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When this is a `-mt` (`-multithreaded`) build and `MSBUILDUSESERVER` is unset, MSBuild Server is engaged automatically. Setting `MSBUILDUSESERVER` to any explicit value opts out of the implicit path: `1` keeps the server on, and any other value (e.g. `0`, `false`) keeps it off, matching the pre-existing behavior. `-mt` is itself experimental and opt-in, so the implicit server engagement is not separately gated.
```

| `MSBUILDUSESERVER` | `-mt` build | Server engaged? | Telemetry `ServerEnableReason` |
|---|---|---|---|
| `1` | (any) | Yes | `EnvVar` |
| any other non-empty value (`0`, `false`, …) | (any) | No (explicit opt-out) | — |
| unset | yes | **Yes** | `ImpliedByMt` |
| unset | no | No | — |

> A single authoritative `-mt` determination drives everything. The command line is parsed once, up front, by the MSBuild Server eligibility check (`CanRunServerBasedOnCommandLineSwitches`), which uses the same `IsMultiThreadedEnabled` logic as the in-proc build path. Because this is the full, response-file-aware parse, `-mt` is detected wherever it is supplied — on the command line, in the auto-response file, in a project `Directory.Build.rsp`, in an `@response` file, or via `MSBUILDFORCEMULTITHREADED`. That same value also decides, once the server is engaged, whether the server process is launched with [Server GC](../../MSBuild-Server.md#garbage-collection). The gathered switches are threaded into the in-proc build path so the command line is **not** parsed a second time.

Reviewer: This feels a bit wordy for this spec. It's good background for the PR but not worth preserving IMO.

### `-mt` implies MSBuild Server

When `-mt` (`-multithreaded`) is on the command line and `MSBUILDUSESERVER` is unset, MSBuild Server is engaged automatically. Setting `MSBUILDUSESERVER` to any explicit value opts out of the implicit path: `1` keeps the server on, and any other value (e.g. `0`, `false`) keeps it off — only `1` engages the server, matching the pre-existing rule. `-mt` is itself experimental and opt-in, so the implicit server engagement is not separately gated.

| `MSBUILDUSESERVER` | `-mt` on command line | Server engaged? | Telemetry `ServerEnableReason` |
|---|---|---|---|
| `1` | (any) | Yes | `EnvVar` |
| any other non-empty value (`0`, `false`, …) | (any) | No (explicit opt-out) | — |
| unset | yes | **Yes** | `ImpliedByMt` |
| unset | no | No | — |

Two `-mt` determinations are used, with distinct purposes:

> - A cheap command-line scan (`IsMultiThreadedRequested`) drives the *implicit server opt-in* above. It runs on every invocation, so it avoids the full command-line parse; consequently `-mt` from a response file does not trigger the implicit opt-in, and `MSBUILDFORCEMULTITHREADED` (a force/testing knob) does **not** by itself engage the server.

Reviewer: I don't like missing mt from response files. Isn't that how we're going to get a bunch of the dogfooding?

Author: Good call - fixed in 92ed3d6. You're right that response-file `-mt` (especially a checked-in `Directory.Build.rsp`) is the likely dogfooding path, so it now implicitly engages the server.

I reworked it into a **single authoritative parse** rather than patching the cheap scan:
- `CanRunServerBasedOnCommandLineSwitches` does the one command-line parse and returns the gathered switches; its response-file-aware `IsMultiThreadedEnabled` result drives **both** implicit server engagement and the Server GC flag. The separate `IsMultiThreadedRequested` scan is gone.
- `-mt` is now detected wherever it lives: command line, auto-response file, project `Directory.Build.rsp`, `@response` file, or `MSBUILDFORCEMULTITHREADED`.
- To avoid parsing twice, the gathered switches are threaded into `Execute` (new internal overload + a `switchesAlreadyGathered` flag), so the in-proc build path reuses the single parse.

New test `MSBuildServer_Tests.ServerStartsWhenMtInResponseFileEvenWithoutEnvVar` puts `-mt` only in a `Directory.Build.rsp` and asserts two builds reuse the same server PID. All 15 `MSBuildServer_Tests` pass; build is clean; verified end-to-end that the response-file notice and normal `Directory.Build.rsp` property flow still work.
